>> ROBERT PHOENIX: Hello there.
This is Robert Phoenix, and
welcome to another edition
of "The Eleventh House."
And today on this
episode we're going
to be exploring a slightly
different take on astrology.
It's going to incorporate
astrology, film,
and what we call quote,
unquote "real life."
And it's something that I
like to call the cinematrix.
It's where film, astrology,
symbols, and personalities,
life and death, all converge
into a kind of metamatrix
experience.
And we're going to see that
today through, essentially,
one film and one actor--
well, two films and one actor.
The films are "The Imaginarium
of Doctor Parnassus"
and "Batman," and the
actor is Heath Ledger,
of course the late Heath
Ledger, who tragically
died with an overdose of a
cocktail of prescription drugs.
So one of the reasons we're
doing this, or at least I'm
doing, this show
today is to show
how these areas can overlap
and intersect and have kind
of a really strange effect
on reality in general.
But we're now at
zero degrees Pisces.
I'm shooting this with the moon
at the final stages of Libra
getting ready to
move into Scorpio,
and we're at zero
degrees Pisces.
And Pisces rules film.
Why does Pisces rule film?
Well, film is made out of
petroleum-based products.
So film essentially starts as
a liquid, and then it hardens.
And when it becomes
hard, it takes an image
and retains the
image, and then it
gets projected onto a screen.
One of the interesting
things about film
as well is, like its analog
counterpart, the 33 RPM
recording or the
45 RPM recording,
they are essentially analog.
Now some films are shot
digitally and then transferred
to film, but by and large
film is an analog experience.
And just like
vinyl or wax, which
captures the magnetic
band when it's
recorded in an analog
studio using tubes
and the prehistoric technology
of the 20th century,
film has a similar impact on us.
It has a soundtrack.
That soundtrack which runs
right down the side of the film
actually captures
magnetic resonance,
and magnetic resonance holds
emotion, which brings us back
to Pisces and the whole
Piscean experience.
So what's also fascinating
is as we move out
of the Age of Pisces and we
move into the Age of Aquarius,
we lose all that.
We lose the magnetic resonance.
We lose the 33 and 1/3 RPM
record, we lose the 45,
and we lose film, and
we go straight to video,
and we do digital.
We go 0's and 1's,
very Aquarian.
And we get the approximation
or the simulacra
of the experience, but
what we're not getting
is we're not getting the
emotional heart of it.
And that's why film can be such
a moving experience for people,
especially when it's done from
a purely analog perspective
and thus kind of echoing back
the Age of Pisces and Neptune.
So here we are at Neptune
zero degrees Pisces.
We're going to be
talking about film.
So why don't we
jump right into this
now and move into
the-- here we go--
the introduction
of our show today.
This is a trailer
from "The Imaginarium
of Doctor Parnassus."
It comes at you pretty quickly,
and it's a feast for the eyes,
but here we go.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>1,000 years ago, Doctor
Parnassus made a deal with
the Devil--
>>Stop!
>>You're probably not
a betting man, are you?
>>--to gain immortality.
>>It's been a while.
>>But this came with a price.
>>Any child would, at the
age of 16, belong to him.
>>[GASPS]
>>Now a mysterious outsider--
>>Can you put a
price on your dreams?
>>--will take the travelling
show beyond their imaginations.
>>The extraordinary
Doctor Parnassus.
>>What are you doing?
>>I'm trying to save your
daughter's life, sir.
>>You can save her.
What do you say?
First to five souls.
>>Voila.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> ROBERT PHOENIX: So what
you just saw was about 90
seconds' worth of a deeply
layered and fairly complex film
by Terry Gilliam, the
director of "Time Bandits,"
"Baron von Munchausen," and, of
course, the classic "Brazil."
And I think this might have
been Terry Gilliam's last film.
He hasn't really done
anything since then.
And in some ways,
the film is almost
akin to what John Carpenter
did with "They Live."
There was a bit of professional
suicide in this film,
and we're going to get into why.
I think it's actually a
fairly important film that
came and went, and it's
important on a number
of different levels.
So the whole idea
with Doctor Parnassus,
who's played by
Christopher Plummer,
is that he's like a yogi.
He's a Tibetan yogi, but he's
not an ordinary Tibetan yogi.
He actually is the Tibetan
yogi with his yogi compatriots,
his assistants that dream
the world into being.
That's what they do.
They're in the furthest
reaches of Tibet,
and they are dreaming
the world into being.
And one day a terrific
and malevolent force
descends upon them, and
that force is Tom Waits,
and he plays the Devil.
And what he does is he makes a
deal with Christopher Plummer's
character, Doctor
Parnassus, and it's
whoever can get to saving or
corrupting five souls first,
they are the ones
that are victorious.
Now if Tom Waits,
the Devil, does that,
then he gets Christopher
Plummer's daughter Valentina
at the age of 16.
Now Christopher Plummer
has to stop him somehow,
so he creates the Imaginarium
of Doctor Parnassus.
He leaves Tibet.
He leaves the center of the
world, the dreaming place
of the world, and he has
a tawdry little show,
a tawdry little sideshow,
a little circus where
he goes from town
to town and he's
able to take people through
a portal, through a mirror,
and he gets them
to face themselves.
And the whole idea
with this is that they
can experience some
kind of redemption.
And the reason I
think that this is
important on a
spiritual level is
the times that we're living
in, the tenor of the times
that we're living in.
Because we are living in Neptune
in Pisces and Chiron in Pisces.
And what is happening
with Neptune and Chiron
in Pisces on an
inner level-- again,
we're talking film
here-- we're getting
to have the review of our own
life's film, our own cinema
as we go through these really
intense and interesting times
of being here on the planet.
So what's happening in
the movie, as people face
themselves and their temptations
inside Parnassus' Imaginarium,
we're actually getting to
experience in our own lives
as well.
So this is why I think
it's an important film.
I think Terry Gilliam was
tapping into something.
He was tapping into
something at a soul level.
something at an Akashic level
and also on a political level.
We're going to get
into a lot of that
over the course of
the next few slides.
So here we are.
This is the Imaginarium
of Doctor Parnassus,
and this is the synopsis of
the film, classic morality
tale of good and evil,
but the good and evil
exist in men and women alike.
Doctor Parnassus is an ancient
dreamer who can provide
the opportunity for a
person to save their soul,
but the irony is is that
he cannot save his own.
And in fact, he actually needs
Heath Ledger and his character
to help him save his own soul.
Now what's interesting
about this is this
is Heath Ledger's last film.
He had finished "Batman"
and playing the Joker prior
to this, but he actually
died during production.
So his role at the
end of the film
had to be played by three
separate actors, Johnny Depp,
Colin Farrell, and Jude Law.
And the way that Terry
Gilliam shot those scenes
is that Heath Ledger's
character became
somebody else inside
the Imaginarium.
It's probably one of
the few films that
could have afforded
him the opportunity
to cast three separate
actors to finish the role.
So the main characters and
their signs-- of course this
is an astrological TV
show or internet show.
We have to take that into
account-- Christopher Plummer,
Sagittarius, Tom
Waits, Sagittarius.
And what's fascinating about
Christopher Plummer and Tom
Waits as being
Sagittarius is that they
both play good and evil.
Ultimately, Doctor Parnassus
is good, and Tom Waits is evil.
But Parnassus cannot experience
his goodness or his redemption
without Tom Waits.
They need each other.
And Tom Waits, his
character, the Devil,
needs Parnassus, because
he needs somebody
to have a challenge with,
to have a contrast with.
He needs the irony and
the paradox of good versus
evil in order to exist.
So they're both
Sagittarius, so they
have this mirror
effect going on.
On the other side,
we have Johnny Depp
and we have Colin Farrell.
They're both Geminis.
And so when this
movie opened-- and it
opened on the 11th of
October, 2009-- the ascendant
was at the final
degrees of Scorpio.
Actually, it looks like
it's at 26 Scorpio.
And then we have the 1st
house is Sagittarius.
So what that means is that both
Christopher Plummer and Tom
Waits, their Sun was
in the 1st house.
Johnny Depp and Colin
Farrell, their Sun
was in the 7th house in Gemini.
So we have this
duality going on.
We have this duality between
two of the main characters
and two of the
replacement characters,
although they play large
roles in the film, especially
Colin Farrell.
So we have that taking place.
Heath Ledger, of
course, is an Aries.
He's born April 4,
so his Aries Sun
is down here in the 4th house.
And we're going to look at Heath
Ledger's chart and the opening
for "Parnassus'"
chart quickly here.
Then we have two Capricorns,
Verne Troyer and Jude Law.
They are down here
in the 2nd house.
And then Lily Cole, who plays
Valentina, she's a Taurus,
and her Sun is over
here, right here
at the edge of the
fifth and the six.
And Andrew Garfield who
plays Anton, he's a Virgo,
and his Sun would be right
up here near the Midheaven.
So here's some of the imagery,
the eye candy for "Parnassus."
Let's get into some
of the other images.
Now this is Christopher
Plummer as he
exists in the 20th century.
This is the current or the
modern version of Parnassus.
And he actually dreams the
world into being for individuals
that step through
the Imaginarium.
Now here's where he meets
Heath Ledger in the film,
and this is actually a
pretty disturbing scene
in a lot of ways.
Now they are
crossing the bridge.
And it's not just any bridge.
It's the same bridge
that the banker Roberto
Calvi, who was part
of the P2 Illuminati,
was found hanging from as well.
So Terry Gilliam
has actually chosen
this bridge for a
reason, and he's
placed Heath Ledger's
character in the same position.
And as they're
crossing this bridge,
it's a stormy night, a
dark and stormy night,
and Parnassus is in their
carriage being drawn by horses.
And he's getting drunk, and
he's playing with the tarot.
And the card that he flips over,
of course, is the Hanged Man.
But what's interesting about
the Hanged Man in tarot
and this version
of the Hanged Man--
they're two different versions.
In the tarot, the Hanged
Man is hanging by his feet.
He's suspended upside down.
And we'll see that
later in the show.
We'll see that the
end of this episode.
Hanging by the feet, by the way,
is representative of Pisces,
because Pisces rules the feet.
What sign is Heath Ledger?
He's an Aries.
And what does Aries rule?
It rules the head.
So here we have Heath
Ledger being hung.
Now how he stays alive is
he has a whistle that he
has put inside of his throat,
and that whistle is keeping him
from choking or being
asphyxiated by the cord.
So they're actually
able to resurrect him
from his Hanged Man position.
Now if you look, he
has these symbols,
these Illuminus symbols
on his forehead.
So we have the third eye here.
We have the pyramid here
with another third eye.
So what Terry Gilliam is
actually trying to portray here
is that this is a ritual death.
He's, in some ways, kind
of hiding in plain sight,
and he's making, again, a
reference to Roberto Calvi
and his death, the member
of the Illuminati P2.
Roberto Calvi was getting ready
to blow the lid on the Vatican
and essentially tell the world
what the Vatican was doing
with its money, where
it got its money,
and what it would like to do
with its money in the future.
However, this happened.
You can actually see the whistle
here in Heath Ledger's mouth.
So they pull him off the
rope, and he joins the troupe.
He becomes a member
of the Imaginarium.
So I wanted to get into
some of the symbolism here.
These are the visual
cues of "Parnassus."
Terry Gilliam isn't shy
when he incorporates
the black and white duality
motif of free masonry
as part of their
traveling sideshow.
He also uses the mirror as
a classic portal technique,
which he borrows from Jean
Cocteau and his classic film
"Orpheus."
So let's just take a look
at this for a second.
Here we have the black and
white checkerboard duality,
which you can see in this
picture and in this picture.
These are Freemasonic interiors.
So you can see the floor, and
you can see the floor here,
the black and white,
the chessboard of life.
Light and dark, good and
evil, right and wrong, it's
all there, and it's
all being played out
on the foundation
of these interior,
for lack of a better
term, ritual scapes.
Now here's the mirror.
And the mirror plays
the role of the portal.
But if you look at
everything-- and here's
another version of the
Imaginarium here with the Sun.
This is a symbol of the Sun,
so there's Sun worship as well.
This is a second Sun-- when
we see this, what we see
is something quite tacky.
We see tinsel, and the seams
are showing, and it's tin foil,
and it's probably
a spray-painted
brass/golden-gilded frame
for the mirror, right?
But it looks tacky.
So what Terry Gilliam is
doing is he's actually
making a statement,
in some ways,
about Freemasonry
and Illuminism.
He, in some ways, is
poking fun at them
by having it be hauled
around from street corner
to street corner
and mall to mall.
Now also what we
have down here--
it's probably hard
for you to see,
but it's the one
picture I have, and you
might have seen it
in the introduction
of the film-- Heath Ledger
is wearing a Venetian mask.
This is what they wear at
the Carnival of Venice.
It's also the same kind
of mask that's being used
or is used in "Eyes Wide
Shut," the film that
is made by Stanley Kubrick and
who Jay Weidner has completely
and classically masterfully
dissected, along with "2001,
a Space Odyssey."
So what Terry Gilliam is doing
is he's making a reference.
He's making a reference with the
Venetian mask and Heath Ledger
that there is also a
connection to the material
that Stanley Kubrick was talking
about in "Eyes Wide Shut."
So these are the
visual cues that
are connecting the
world of Parnassus
with the world of Illuminism,
Freemasonry, and magic.
Here's another one.
This is the top of his trailer.
It's actually, it's
a horse and trailer.
It's almost like a covered wagon
that they haul around London
together.
So here we have the all-seeing
eye, the blazing Sun behind it.
You saw the blazing Sun, or
at least the facsimile of it,
in the last scene.
So again, Gilliam is making a
magical and esoteric reference
to the Illuminati.
This is the opening of the
film on the 11th of October.
I think it's kind
of interesting.
It's 9/10/11, if
you're going backwards.
It's 2009, so it's 9, 10, 11.
So there's some kind
of coding there.
11:00AM would've been the first
time they would have shown
the film in London at a matinee.
It probably would've
opened there,
because that's where
Terry Gilliam lives.
So again, here we
have the ascendant.
What I wanted to show
here is, because we're
showing this one more
time, is Venus up here near
Virgo at the Midheaven.
Now this film was actually
critically acclaimed.
So when we see Virgo
at the Midheaven,
the critics would
actually like it, right?
Because that's Virgo.
That's what Virgo does.
It criticizes it.
It gets in and editorializes,
and it passes judgment
on what's good and
what's not so good.
So they had a nice
relationship with the critics.
The challenge with the film as
it opened at that point in time
is the placement of the Sun.
It's at 18 Libra.
And it's in the
11th house, which
could be really good, but-- or
headed towards the 11th house.
But it's on the cusp.
It's on the cusp of
the 10th and the 11th,
so it's almost losing
its energy and its steam
coming out of the
10th and the 11th.
I'm imagining that
this film probably
did much better in
on-demand or DVD
than it did at the box office.
This would have been
the box office house.
Here it's moving into
the Aquarian house.
So I haven't seen
the figures, but I'm
assuming it did
much better then.
And we also have this opposition
here between Uranus and then
Saturn.
And when we get into
Uranus/Saturn oppositions, what
we're talking about is
the new versus the old.
Uranus is the new.
Saturn is the old.
So these are new mediums
versus old mediums.
Uranus is in Pisces down here.
It's at the bottom of the chart.
Again, Pisces represents film.
It's near the IC.
So it's kind of a new
take on an old medium,
but the power of Uranus in
Pisces, especially retrograde,
is not very great.
And again, up here
Saturn in Libra,
things moving towards
the 11th house,
moving towards
the future, moving
towards DVDs and
streaming and home video.
We can see that there.
And then over here we have Moon
in Cancer and Mars in Cancer.
And they're actually having
a nice trine with Uranus.
My sense on this
or my take on this
is that this film will
become more popular later on,
that this is a classic
that will be rediscovered.
All right.
Let's go to the next slide.
This is the chart of
Heath Ledger, his chart,
and it's the chart of
the opening of the film.
And I wanted to bring
these two together
because I think they're
pretty fascinating.
What we have here is
here's Heath Ledger.
He's the ascendant.
He is the Sun in Aries,
and that's his ascendant.
So he's an Aries Sun,
and he's an Aries rising.
And by the way, people
who have Aries rising
tend to lose their
hair fairly early,
so you can see where
Heath Ledger was actually
having a receding
hairline as a young man.
Of course, Aries rules the head.
And what we see in his chart is
actually a little disturbing,
because right across from
his Aries Sun is Pluto.
So he has a
Sun-Pluto opposition.
Now there are people that have
Sun-Pluto oppositions that
live much longer than
Heath Ledger did.
But nonetheless, we have to
take that opposition, certainly,
into account.
Now what's also really
interesting about his chart
is he has Mars in
the 12th house,
and he has Mars in
the sign of Pisces.
Now Mars in the 12th
house classically
means hidden enemies
or violence that
can erupt at any given
time, at a moment's notice.
Again, the 12th house
is a house of depth.
It's the house of
the cosmic void.
It's the house of the ocean.
It's a very hard house
to get a handle on.
So when we have a
planet like Mars there,
classical astrologers
rule that as an eruption,
as an eruption that happens
at some point in time.
Now he also has Mercury here
in the 12th house, which
if you're an actor
may not necessarily
be a bad thing
because you want to be
able to have that kind
of Piscean ability
to take on as many
different characters as
possible, shapeshift,
blend, dissolve
into another character.
And Mars there in the
12th house could actually
be kind of a catalyst
for that kind of almost
channeling, for
lack of better term.
But any time we get Mars in
Pisces in the 12th house,
we also have to
look at addiction,
because that comes up as well.
So in order for him
to get into character
or go into the 12th house,
he would need in some way,
shape, or form some type of
catalyst in order to do that.
Now when we look at the opening
of the film, what do we see?
We see that the Sun
is in Libra, and it's
conjunct Pluto in Libra
in Heath Ledger's chart.
Pretty interesting.
He also won the
Best Actor award.
He won that posthumously
after his death.
And what do we have here?
We have Pluto retrograde
and, yes, Mercury retrograde.
So it would make sense for him
to be able to win that award
after he had passed away,
tragically, unfortunately
his greatest achievement
and not being able to
enjoy it and share it
with other people
in this lifetime
and in this corporeal body.
So it's retrograde.
But with the Sun here on Pluto
opening day, what is it doing?
It's resurrecting Heath Ledger.
The film resurrects him.
It resurrects him
into our consciousness
because it hits his Pluto, and
his Pluto is opposite his Sun.
And that's what the
opening of the film does.
It brings Heath
Ledger back to us.
Very fascinating.
If there's anything else here
that I wanted to show you,
I think probably
the transits here
with Venus and Mercury and
Saturn in the 6th house,
because this is the house
of service and work,
and they're just off
of his true node.
If you notice, Heath Ledger's
south node is over here
in the 12th house, and that's
actually a very vulnerable spot
for the south node, especially
when it's with Mars conjunct.
Interesting.
So anyway, what
we're seeing here
is Mercury, Venus, Saturn
kind of coming back in, again
resurrecting, bringing energy
back into his house of work.
Now Heath Ledger also
had Neptune up here
in the 9th house.
So one of the things that he
did is he was born in Australia,
but he made his fortune,
he made his name
abroad in places like the
United States and in Europe.
So that would represent,
again, acting, Neptune,
and international commerce,
foreign lands, things
like that up there
in the 9th house.
So we can get a really
good picture, in some ways,
of Heath Ledger's
life to some extent.
We don't want to trivialize
it or minimalize it,
but I just wanted
to show you how
these two things
can work together.
OK.
So what we have here is
this is the same bridge
that Heath Ledger
was found hanging on.
And of course here's a
picture of Roberto Calvi,
"God's Banker."
If you want to find
out more about Roberto
Calvi and this whole
incident, there's your book.
Now here's where
it gets-- well, I
think all this is fascinating,
but that's just me.
But this is where it takes
a really interesting turn.
Now it's hard for you
to kind of see this,
but this is Heath Ledger and
he's hanging upside down.
He is suspended.
And this is from the
second "Batman" film.
And what we have here is
we have the Hanged Man--
I just wanted to show you
these two cards side by side--
we have the Hanged Man,
and he was the Hanged Man
in Parnassus, but it
was with the head.
Now he's assumed the role of
the Hanged Man here as well.
But he is also the
Joker, so he's the Fool.
He's the Fool, the
0 card, and he's
the number 12 card
in the Hanged Man.
And so what he was
doing is Heath Ledger,
within the span
of two movies, was
channeling intense
archetypal energy.
Any time you play the
Hanged Man and the Fool
together in a movie--
and our brains
don't really distinguish
between reality and television
and cinema.
We have to do that ourselves.
Our brains are just taking
these pieces of information
in all the time, which is
why movies and television can
be really powerful and
profound tools for programming
a person's mind and
their consciousness--
so when you're in character
like that, when you're assuming
the archetypal dimensions of
the Hanged Man and the Fool,
I'm sure it has pretty profound
and wide-ranging effects
on the life of the
individual and the psyche.
And remember, keep in mind
he had Mercury and Mars
in the 12th house.
Let's move on to the next slide.
This is, again, another kind
of interesting iteration
with this whole experience.
This is Jessica Savitch.
And Jessica Savitch was the
first female news reporter
to become an anchor.
She was an anchor for NBC, I
believe, the "Nightly News."
And she was a
terrific newsperson.
She was an Aquarius, and
she had her Sun very close
to her Midheaven.
Her chart, which I don't
have up here, is phenomenal.
She was a groundbreaking
television personality,
and you could see in her
chart that she was really
meant for big
things, huge things.
In fact, she was,
in her own way,
doing it when she was
the "Nightly News"
anchor on NBC for a while.
She started doing
independent reporting.
Now she dies on
October 23-- which
is the first day
of Scorpio, zero
Scorpio, death, sex, and
transformation-- in 1983.
Jessica Savitch
was the last person
to actually speak
with Roberto Calvi.
So she did an
interview with him,
and I don't know what
happened to that interview.
I think it's probably
gone, like Jessica Savitch.
But what's really strange
about how she passed
is she went out to dinner
one night with her husband,
and they were driving
back from dinner.
And for all intents
and purposes,
based on the news reports,
there was a little bit of rain.
It wasn't raining a whole lot.
But somehow she lost
control of the car,
and the car wound up
in an aqueduct next
to the side of the road.
And there wasn't a ton
of water in the aqueduct.
And somehow Jessica
Savitch and her husband
both died in the aqueduct, and
it was fairly shallow water,
a very suspicious death.
But again, if we're
talking about elements,
it's kind of a Scorpionic
passage in some ways.
Scorpio represents water.
But we're also looking for her
to do that, her car would have
had to have turned upside down,
which, again, brings us back
to the image of the
Hanged Man and being
suspended by the
feet, a Piscean image.
The end of the Piscean Age
using a Piscean medium, film,
in order to make that happen.
OK.
So what I want to do now is
I want to the kind of set
the stage for the next clip,
because what we're about to see
is we're about to see
Heath Ledger in "Batman."
I believe it's one of the
final scenes of "Batman."
And if you've seen
the second "Batman"
film, if you don't really pay
attention, what you walk away
with from watching that film
is you think-- or at least
I did the first time.
I had to watch it
a couple times.
I thought that Heath Ledger's
character dies, but he doesn't.
The Joker doesn't
die in "Batman."
What happens is
he's left hanging.
He's left being suspended in
cinema, in time, forever frozen
in film, in our minds.
And so what that
means to me or what
it conjures for me
is that when you
look at all these elements,
when you look at Heath Ledger's
chart and you look at what
Terry Gilliam was trying
to do portraying the
hanging of Roberto Calvi--
oh, and by the way, in
the film Heath Ledger is
being chased by
Italian mobsters.
So again, Terry Gilliam is
trying to make allusions.
He's trying to tell
as much as he can
through the vehicle
of the movie.
And then we see the crossover
with Roberto Calvi, who,
by the way, is
also an Aries, just
like Heath Ledger,
born a little bit later
in terms of the degree of the
sun, but he's an Aries as well.
So we have this mirroring effect
going on in film and reality
and then coming all the
way back to Jessica Savitch
and back to film again.
So the question is,
what does it all mean?
Is there a truth?
Is there an epiphany?
Is there a revelation that
we can draw from this?
Or is it all about
inference and cipher?
Can you live with the
information at hand
and try to draw your
own conclusions?
Isn't that a lot like
life in some ways?
So without any further
ado, let's play this clip.
And I'll leave you with
the vision and the image
and the symbol of Heath
Ledger suspended as the Joker
forever without any truth,
without any resolution,
but allowing you to draw
your own conclusion.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>[GRUNTS]
>>We really should
stop this fighting.
Otherwise we'll
miss the fireworks.
>>There won't be any fireworks.
>>And here we go.
>>What were you trying to
prove, that deep down everyone's
as ugly as you?
>>[GRUNTS]
>>You're alone.
>>You can't rely on
anyone these days.
You gotta do everything
yourself, don't we?
That's OK.
I came prepared.
It's a funny world we live in.
Speaking of which, you
know how I got these scars?
>>No.
But I know how you got these.
>>[GROANING] [LAUGHING]
[GROANING]
[GRUNTS] [GROANING] Oh, you,
you just couldn't let me go,
could you?
This is what happens when
an unstoppable force meets
an immovable object.
[SIGHS] You truly are
incorruptible, aren't you, huh?
You won't kill me out
of some misplaced sense
of self-righteousness.
And I won't kill you because
you're just too much fun.
[CHUCKLES] I think you and I
are destined to do this forever.
>>You'll be in a
padded cell forever.
>>Maybe we could share one.
You know, they'll be doubling
up at the rate this city's
inhabitants are
losing their minds.
>>This city just showed you
that it's full of people
ready to believe in good.
>>Until their spirit
breaks completely,
until they get a good look
at the real Harvey Dent, huh,
and all the heroic
things he's done.
[CHUCKLES] You
didn't think I'd risk
losing the battle for Gotham's
soul in a fist fight with you.
[SIGHS] No.
You need an ace in the hole.
Mine's Harvey.
>>What did you do?
>>I took Gotham's white
knight, and I brought him down
to our level.
It wasn't hard.
See, madness, as you
know, is like gravity.
All it takes is a little push.
[LAUGHING]
>> ROBERT PHOENIX: So just as
Parnassus and the Devil need
each other in "The Imaginarium
of Doctor Parnassus"
to define good and evil and have
the experience of redemption
and contrast to understand
one another, so, too,
do Batman and Joker need
each other in the same way.
So I'll leave you with that.
Thank you for joining me on
this edition of "The Eleventh
House."
I hope you enjoyed it and our
brief romp into the cinematrix.
I'll see you again next time.